#summary Ways that interested folks can help out with this project.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy,Target-Users

= Introduction =

This project is written BY farmers FOR farmers.  It is free software and, as such, is dependent upon the help of volunteers.  There are many ways to help out, even for "non techy" folks.  Check out the list below to see how you can help.

= Details =

== Testing ==

_Technical skill required:_ low

Anyone with a critical eye and an investigative nature can help out here.  Download and run the software, taking notes about bugs and other things that don't seem to work.  Be sure to keep track of how to "replicate" the problem, or how to make it happen again and again so that we can double check.  Sign up for an account at gmail code and 
[http://code.google.com/p/cropplanning/issues/list submit issues] for us to work on.

It's *extremely* helpful if you just send in your general impressions: what _do_ you like, what _don't_ you like, what features do you think are *really important*, etc etc.

Also, you can [mailto:cropplanning@gmail.com send us] copies of your digital crop plans (Excel, OpenOffice, or otherwise; they will be kept confidential) and/or descriptions of how you do your crop planning.  This feedback will help us to focus our work on the parts of the program that people really care about.  The more "votes" we get for something, the quicker it will work it's way into the program.


== Coding ==

_Technical skill required:_ high

The project is and always will be in search of computer programmers that can help create and maintain the source code of the project.  Developers with experience in software engineering, Java and SQL are most sought.

== Website ==

_Technical skill required:_ medium

We need help creating and maintaining a website.


== Artwork ==

_Technical skill required:_ medium

We need an artist to create a program icon!


== Documentation ==

_Technical skill required:_ low

Help us create readable help documents for new users.

== Spread the Word ==

_Technical skill required:_ low

If you like the software, tell all your friends!  Link to us from your website and consider speaking to local farming and gardening groups about this software.

= Donations =

== Direct Donations ==

We happily accept donations via PayPal (sent to the address: [mailto:cropplanning@gmail.com cropplanning@gmail.com]).  Monetary donations allow us to focus directly on this project instead of fitting it in around the edges of our other tasks and projects.  Donations are used ONLY for work on the project and, if you have any questions about how the money is managed and spent, we would be happy to answer them at [mailto:cropplanning@gmail.com cropplanning@gmail.com].

== In-Kind and Indirect Donations ==

If you can't afford to send us some money, perhaps you can send us something else?  Perhaps you have a techy friend that could help us out and maybe they would like some free produce in exchange for the help they give us.