#summary Common problems and their solutions.
#labels Featured,Phase-Support,Target-Users

Below you will find a series of common problems and various solutions to those problems (if they exist).  If you don't see your problem listed, or the list solutions don't work for you, please [mailto:cropplanning@gmail.com contact us].

== My data is gone?! ==

_Problem_: When you open the software, your data is missing and you're just presented with an empty list even though your data and crop plans were alive and well when you last used the software.

There are two possible causes:

 # You have changed the setting for *output directory*.  This setting covers not only where your PDF planting lists will be created, but also where your crops & crop plan data files will live.  Just change this setting back to what it was before and restart the program.  If you don't remember what it was before, you'll have to go looking around your computer for some files whose names start with `CPSdb`.  Change the setting to be the folder that contains those files.

 # Worst case scenario is that you deleted your data files.  In this case, your only recourse to check your trash (on the computer) to make sure that you haven't completed deleted your data, or to restore the files from their last backup.  If you don't already backup your computer, there are several [http://www.google.com/search?q=free+online+backup free only backup services].

_(this section covers version Beta1 (at least) and was last updated 2/7/09)_

== What are these funny `CPSdb` files ==

The files `CPSdb.script` and `CPSdb.properties` *are your data*.  Do not delete them.

_(this section covers version Beta1 (at least) and was last updated 2/7/09)_

== Can't create a new plan ==

_Problem:_ you click the "Change Plans" button and try to create a new crop plan, but the "Create" button doesn't work or is greyed out.

This is a known issue and will be fixed in the Beta2 release.

_(this section covers version Beta1 (at least) and was last updated 2/7/09)_