#summary A template we can use for release notes
#labels Phase-Deploy,Target-Developers

{{{
CropPlanning Software
http://cropplanning.googlecode.com
cropplanning@gmail.com

Release Notes for Pre-Release of Version 1.0.0


===[ WARNING ]===

This software is being released in a "pre-alpha" state.  This means that 
the software may be unstable or unpredictable.  Please use this version
for testing and tinkering ONLY.  There is currently no way to "export"
data for backup and the software may render the your data unusable at any
time.

OK, reality check: it is unlikely that the software will lose your data and
crash your computer.  But it is VERY likely that the software may not work
properly or have a complete set of usable features.  This is being released
because we feel that all of the programs major features are in place but 
that they need testing in order to be fixed and polished.

Please remember that this software is currently being released FOR TESTING ONLY.


===[ Installation ]===

Installation is simple

Step 1: Confirm or Install Java

This software requires Java version 1.5 (aka Java 5) or greater.  The latest version of
the "Java Runtime Environment" can be downloaded from http://www.java.com/ .  Look for 
the button that says "Free Java Download".

    Mac: All users of Mac OS X 10.4 or greater should be all set.

Step 2: Make Directory

You will have to create a directory on your computer for the software.  "Right click" or 
"CTRL Click" on your desktop and select "New Folder" (Windows: Select "New >" then "Folder").

Step 3: Copy Program

Open the archive that you downloaded from the website (hint: if you're reading this file,
you've probably already done that) and simply drag the program file (Mac: CropPlanning, 
Windows: CropPlanning.exe) to the directory or folder that you created in the last step.  

Step 4: Open the program

Just double click on the program icon!


===[ How To Help ]===

Communicate!  Send all of your ideas, suggestions, bugs, etc to cropplanning@gmail.com.  If you 
feel comfortable, submit "issues" (ie, bugs, feature requests, etc) directly through the website at

	http://code.google.com/p/cropplanning/issues/list
	
Also, just take a look at our "HelpWanted" page to see if you can help out any other way:

    http://code.google.com/p/cropplanning/wiki/HelpWanted
    
}}}